doc/cody: customer-facing Cody Gateway docs (#53571)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/cody/explanations/cody_gateway.md

## Using Cody Gateway in Sourcegraph Enterprise

> WARNING: Sourcegraph Cody Gateway access must be included in your Sourcegraph Enterprise subscription plan first - reach out to your account manager for more details.
>
> If you are a [Sourcegraph Cloud](../../cloud/index.md) customer, please reach out to your account manager to enable Cody.

<span class="virtual-br"></span>

> NOTE: Sourcegraph Cody Gateway uses one or more third-party LLM (Large Language Model) providers. Make sure you review the [Cody usage and privacy notice](https://about.sourcegraph.com/terms/cody-notice). In particular, code snippets will be sent to a third-party language model provider when you use the Cody extension or when embeddings are enabled.

To enable completions and embeddings provided by Cody Gateway on your Sourcegraph Enterprise instance, simply ensure your license key is set and Cody is enabled in [site configuration](../../admin/config/site_config.md):

```jsonc
{
  "licenseKey": "<...>",
  "cody.enabled": true,

>   "embeddings": { "enabled": true } // if desired, for Code Graph Context embeddings

Reviewer: not needed, on by default

}
```

That's it! Reasonable defaults will automatically be applied, and authentication will happen automatically based on the configured license key.

For more details about configuring Cody, refer to the following guides:

- [Enabling Cody for Sourcegraph Enterprise](./enabling_cody_enterprise.md)
- [Code Graph Context: Embeddings](./code_graph_context.md#embeddings)

## Configuring custom models

To configure custom models for various Cody configurations (e.g. `"completions"` and `"embeddings"`), specify the desired model with the upstream provider as a prefix to the name of the model. For example, to use the `claude-v1` model from Anthropic, you would configure:

```json
{

>   "completions": { "chatModel": "anthropic/claude-v1" },

Reviewer: when specifying a model, the provider has to be explicitly stated again.

Author: Oof, I think that shouldn't be the case? I'll take a look at the code, setting something like this should be valid

Reviewer: I think I made provider required for both embeddings and completions when the object exists, to protect against cases where config existed but it didn't talk to `sourcegraph` yet :/

Author: I think completions has always had provider so we should be good to not require it

Reviewer: Yeah, good call.. I wanted completions and embeddings to behave very similar if possible. But maybe that's annoying. Want to PR that?

Author: Will do!

Author: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/53580

Author: Also fixed up a similar issue with embeddings: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/53582

}
```

The currently supported upstream providers for models are:

- [`anthropic/`](https://www.anthropic.com/)
- [`openai/`](https://openai.com/)

For Sourcegraph Enterprise customers, model availability depends on your Sourcegraph Enterprise subscription - reach out your account manager for more details.

Refer to [Cody documentation](../index.md) to learn more about Cody configuration.

> ## Rate limits and quotas

Reviewer: I wonder if we should actually name limits here, it sounds very vague without

Author: Do you mean e.g. completions/chat/embeddings rate limits specifics? Or the header here?

I generally think of headers as hierarchical so here we are at `Cody Gateway > Rate limits` => "Cody Gateway rate limits"

Reviewer: yes limit numbers

Author: I'll add something to indicate we rate limit by feature 👍

Rate limits, quotas, and model availability is tied to one of:

- your Sourcegraph Enterprise product subscription, for Sourcegraph Enterprise instances
- your Sourcegraph.com account, for [Sourcegraph App users](../../app/index.md)

All successful requests to Cody Gateway will count towards your rate limits.
Unsuccesful requests are not counted as usage.

> In addition to the above, we also throttle concurrent requests to Cody Gateway per Sourcegraph Enterprise instance or Sourcegraph App user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the above, we may throttle concurrent requests to Cody Gateway per Sourcegraph Enterprise instance or Sourcegraph App user, to prevent excessive burst consumption.
```

## Privacy and security

Sourcegraph Cody Gateway does not retain any sensitive data (prompt test and source code included in requests, etc) from any traffic we receive.
We only tracks rate limit consumption per Sourcegraph Enterprise subscription, and some high-level diagnostic data (errors codes from upstream, numeric/enum request parameters, etc).

> The cody that powers Cody Gateway is also [source-available](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=context:global+repo:%5Egithub%5C.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph$+f:cmd/cody-gateway+lang:go&patternType=lucky&sm=1&groupBy=path) for audit.

Reviewer: lol 
```suggestion
The code that powers Cody Gateway is also [source-available](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=context:global+repo:%5Egithub%5C.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph$+f:cmd/cody-gateway+lang:go&patternType=lucky&sm=1&groupBy=path) for audit.
```

Author: my brain is in too deep 💀

For more details about Cody Gateway security practices, please reach out to your account manager.

> Also refer to the [Cody usage and privacy notice](https://about.sourcegraph.com/terms/cody-notice) for more privacy details about Cody in general.

Author: @sourcegraph/security would appreciate a review of this section specifically 🙏
